doc: Add build an end to end solution with GN (#1035)
TheThingsIndustries/lorawan-stack-docs: doc/content/getting-started/guides/build-an-end-to-end-solution-gn/_index.md

---

> title: "Building an End-to-End LoRaWAN Application with The Things Stack"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Build an Application using Generic Node Sensor Edition and Kuando Busylight"
```

description: ""
weight: 
---

> In this section, we will show how to build an end-to-end solution with [{{% tts %}}](/getting-started/what-is-tts/) to control the [Kuando Busylight](https://busylight.com/busylight-iot/) with the [Generic Node Sensor Edition](https://www.thethingsshop.com/products/generic-node-sensor-edition)(GNSE). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we will show how to build an end-to-end solution with [{{% tts %}}](/getting-started/what-is-tts/) to control the [Kuando Busylight](https://busylight.com/busylight-iot/) with the [Generic Node Sensor Edition](https://www.thethingsshop.com/products/generic-node-sensor-edition) (GNSE). 
```

> # Registering The Things Indoor Gateway

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Registering The Things Indoor Gateway
```

Reviewer: add one more hash, otherwise these don't show up on the right navigation bar. this goes for the whole doc

> Register The Things Indoor Gateway with {{% tts %}} by following the instructions on this [page](/gateways/models/thethingsindoorgateway/). Once registered, your gateway will be ready to receive uplinks and forward downlinks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Register The Things Indoor Gateway with {{% tts %}} by following [these instructions]({{< "/gateways/models/thethingsindoorgateway" >}}). Once registered, your gateway will be ready to receive uplinks and forward downlinks.
```

Reviewer: Are you sure that putting the link without {{< >}} works in production? I'm not sure

# Creating an Application

> Create a new application with {{% tts %}} by following the instructions on this [page](/integrations/adding-applications/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new application with {{% tts %}} by following [these instructions](/integrations/adding-applications/).
```

> # Adding Generic Node SE

Reviewer: why Generic Node SE when you introduced GNSE in the beginning?

- The gateway status (Connect gateway, Receive gateway status, etc) can be found in the **Live data** section of your gateway **overview** page. 

{{< figure src="gateway-live-data.png" alt="" >}}

- Your gateway is ready to receive uplinks and send downlinks after connecting.

# Creating an Application

Before onboarding end devices to your network you must create at least one application with {{% tts %}}:
- In {{% tts %}} **Console** select **Applications**.
- Select the **Create application** button.
- On the **Create application** page provide the following information:
  - **Application ID:** A unique identification for your application. Eg. _yourname-climate-tracker_
  - **Application name:** Any descriptive name. Eg. _[Your Name]'s Room Climate Tracker_
- Select the **Create application** button.

{{< figure src="create-application.png" alt="" >}}

- Once created you will be forwarded to the **overview** page of the application you just created.

# Onboarding Generic Node SE

> Generic Node Sensor Edition is a hardware platform that simplifies building LoRaWAN® end-devices for various use cases. It provides a fast development lifecycle from concept to production with its reference hardware design files and source-available firmware.

Reviewer: Please link the documentation to Generic Node somewhere

{{< figure src="generic-node-se.png" alt="" >}}

> An end device can be added to {{% tts %}} through [manual onboarding](https://www.thethingsindustries.com/docs/devices/adding-devices/#manually-registering-an-end-device), [device repository](https://www.thethingsindustries.com/docs/devices/adding-devices/#using-the-lorawan-device-repository), or [scanning a QR code](https://www.thethingsindustries.com/docs/devices/adding-devices/#onboarding-devices-using-qr-codes).

Reviewer: Make this short and just link Adding devices

> In this project, we will add the Generic Node to {{% tts %}} by scanning its QR code. The QR code for claiming the Generic Node is located on the back of its enclosure. For complete steps on how to claim a device using a QR code, please refer to the instructions available [here](https://www.thethingsindustries.com/docs/devices/adding-devices/#onboarding-devices-using-qr-codes).

Reviewer: Add GNSE abbreviation at the beginning and use it in the rest of the section

> In this project, we will add the Generic Node to {{% tts %}} by scanning its QR code. The QR code for claiming the Generic Node is located on the back of its enclosure. For complete steps on how to claim a device using a QR code, please refer to the instructions available [here](https://www.thethingsindustries.com/docs/devices/adding-devices/#onboarding-devices-using-qr-codes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we will add GNSE to {{% tts %}} by scanning its QR code. The QR code for claiming the Generic Node is located on the back of its enclosure. For complete steps on how to claim a device using a QR code, please refer to the instructions available [here](https://www.thethingsindustries.com/docs/devices/adding-devices/#onboarding-devices-using-qr-codes).
```

{{< figure src="generic-node-qr-code.png" alt="" >}}

Once claimed you will be forwarded to the **View registered end device** page.

{{< note "Your Generic Node Sensor Edition comes pre-programmed with a [vanilla](https://www.genericnode.com/docs/applications/se-vanilla/) application that can be used with this project. The full instructions on how to program Generic Node SE can be found [here](https://www.genericnode.com/docs/getting-started/se-sw/)." />}}
 
- Go to the **Live data** tab.
- Power cycle your Generic Node by either pressing the reset button or removing and re-inserting its batteries.
- Once power cycled, you can immediately see the activity status such as **Accept join-request** and **Forward join-accept messages** in the **Live data** section.
- Now press the user button on top of the Generic Node.
- In the **Live data** section, you can see an uplink data message received by {{% tts %}} application. 

> - Select the uplink message. You can see the detailed view of your message in the **Event details** window. Scroll down and see what’s in the **frm_payload** (frame payload) field. The payload is encoded which is not useful until it is decoded.

Reviewer: Remove bullets please

> - Select the uplink message. You can see the detailed view of your message in the **Event details** window. Scroll down and see what’s in the **frm_payload** (frame payload) field. The payload is encoded which is not useful until it is decoded.

Reviewer: Payload is maybe not comprehensible to every human, but you can't say it's not useful. Please reword this and link payload formatting section
